Name: Mohammad Aman Zargar
NSID: Maz423
Student ID: 11265940



Part3:

In this part we extend our GoL implementation and allow the user to specify the Grid size, Geometry:

The two implementation styles that seemed feasable to allow the user to select a grid size and the geometry were as follows:

1. Take user input from command line:
   
   When the user runs the program, the user will be prompted to enter the dimensions of the Grid.
   The user will then be prompted to choose between two geometry options: cylindrical, toroidal.
   
   
2. Specifying the dimensions and geometry in the input.txt file:

   The input.txt file would contain the dimensions in the first line of the txt file.
   The second line would contain a string "cylindrical or toroidal".

compare and contrast:

   Command line  Input                                                File Input
   
   input.txt required                            -       input.txt required
   
   We can display useful prompts that can        -       The user has no way of knowing how to exactly format the input.txt file
   guide the user to enter the dimensions
   and then the size. 
   
   Less error prone as the user gets directions  -       more chances that the user incorrectly formats the file 
   at every step.                                        and the program crashes as a result.
   
   
   
   Easier to implement:                          -       Comparitively complex to implement:
     we only have to take user input once                 we have to change our read_file() function
     in the main() and change our                         as well as our Find_neighbours() function.
     Find_neighbours() function.                          we might also have to make changes to our Generate_grid function.
                 
Chosen method:
   There dosen't seem to be a huge difference between the two implementations however due to the fact that taking input
   from the command line is a more interactive process for the user, is less prone to user errors, and also is slightly
   less complex to implement. and also due to the fact that there are no significant performance improvements of using
   the File input approach. i will be choosing to implement the command line input method. 
   
User end documentation:
   The extension requires an input.txt file that contains the initial state of the Grid. The user is also given an option
   to specify the dimentions but the input.txt should
   match the dimensions entered by the user. However the user can always choose a smaller dimension than the one in the
   input.txt file.
   
   The given input.txt has 113 rows and 100 cols.
   a user can also enter 100 rows and 100 cols when prompted by program but not 200 rows and 200 cols unless input.txt is modified.
   Note! some smaller input may generate empty files, that means all cells are dead.
   The user is then prompted to choose a geometry amoung 3 options. 
   Please choose a number indicating selected geometry :
   1. Cylinderical Top
   2. Cylinderical Side
   3. Toroidal
   
   when the user enters the integer that represents the chosen geometry the program executes a 1000 ticks and generates an output.txt containing the final state.
     




